index.md, before:

---
title: SiteWhere 1.6.0 Documentation
layout: default
sidebar: combined-sidebar.html
includeNavigation: false
---

# {{page.title}}

## Getting Started

[System Overview]({{ site.url }}/overview.html) - A high-level overview of what SiteWhere does
and the technologies it uses.

[System Architecture]({{ site.url }}/architecture.html) - A more detailed view of how the system is
designed and implemented.

[Developer Guide]({{ site.url }}/developer.html) - Download the latest SiteWhere code and build
the system for yourself.

[Core API Javadoc]({{ site.url }}/javadoc/sitewhere-core-api/) - Explore Javadoc for the SiteWhere
core APIs.

[Server API Javadoc]({{ site.url }}/javadoc/sitewhere-server-api/) - Explore Javadoc for the SiteWhere
server APIs.

[REST Services]({{ site.url }}/rest/single.html) - Explore the available SiteWhere REST services including 
detailed usage examples.

## Using the System

[Installation]({{ site.url }}/userguide/installation.html) - Install SiteWhere on a local machine
or in the cloud.

[Global Configuration]({{ site.url }}/userguide/global-configuration.html) - Configure the global 
aspects of SiteWhere that are common to all tenants.

[Tenant Configuration]({{ site.url }}/userguide/tenant/tenant-configuration.html) - Configure individual
tenants with their own data store and processing pipeline.

[Administrative Application]({{ site.url }}/userguide/adminui/adminui.html) - Use the included HTML5
administrative application to configure a SiteWhere instance.

## Integrating with Other Technologies

[Running in the Cloud]({{ site.url }}/cloud.html) - Run a SiteWhere instance on one of the many supported
cloud providers.

[Integration Tutorials]({{ site.url }}/integration.html) - Integrate SiteWhere with external platforms 
and services.

Commit message:

Added document on sending/receiving data via JSON.

index.md, after:

---
title: SiteWhere 1.6.0 Documentation
layout: default
sidebar: combined-sidebar.html
includeNavigation: false
---

# {{page.title}}

## Getting Started

[System Overview]({{ site.url }}/overview.html) - A high-level overview of what SiteWhere does
and the technologies it uses.

[System Architecture]({{ site.url }}/architecture.html) - A more detailed view of how the system is
designed and implemented.

[Developer Guide]({{ site.url }}/developer.html) - Download the latest SiteWhere code and build
the system for yourself.

[Core API Javadoc]({{ site.url }}/javadoc/sitewhere-core-api/) - Explore Javadoc for the SiteWhere
core APIs.

[Server API Javadoc]({{ site.url }}/javadoc/sitewhere-server-api/) - Explore Javadoc for the SiteWhere
server APIs.

[REST Services]({{ site.url }}/rest/single.html) - Explore the available SiteWhere REST services including 
detailed usage examples.

## Using the System

[Installation]({{ site.url }}/userguide/installation.html) - Install SiteWhere on a local machine
or in the cloud.

[Sending and Receiving Device Data]({{ site.url }}/userguide/sending-data.html) - Connect devices and other
agents to SiteWhere.

[Global Configuration]({{ site.url }}/userguide/global-configuration.html) - Configure the global 
aspects of SiteWhere that are common to all tenants.

[Tenant Configuration]({{ site.url }}/userguide/tenant/tenant-configuration.html) - Configure individual
tenants with their own data store and processing pipeline.

[Administrative Application]({{ site.url }}/userguide/adminui/adminui.html) - Use the included HTML5
administrative application to configure a SiteWhere instance.

## Integrating with Other Technologies

[Running in the Cloud]({{ site.url }}/cloud.html) - Run a SiteWhere instance on one of the many supported
cloud providers.

[Integration Tutorials]({{ site.url }}/integration.html) - Integrate SiteWhere with external platforms 
and services.
