userguide/global-configuration.md, before:

---
title: Global Configuration
layout: default
sidebar: sidebar.html
prevLink: userguide/installation.html
prevTitle: Installing SiteWhere
nextLink: userguide/tenant/tenant-configuration.html
nextTitle: Tenant Configuration
---

# {{page.title}}
SiteWhere uses a hierarchy of [Spring](http://projects.spring.io/spring-framework/) XML files as
its configuration mechanism. When the SiteWhere server starts, one of the first steps is to bootstrap
the core system components by loading the **conf/sitewhere/sitewhere-server.xml** file. This file
acts as the global server configuration, specifying aspects of the system shared by all tenants such
as the user datastore implementation and Hazelcast configuration. In addition to the global configuration,
there is a per-tenant configuration in **conf/sitewhere/xxx-tenant.xml** (where **xxx** is the tenant id)
which specifies details about how the tenant engine is to be configured. Most other SiteWhere features 
such as device management and communication engine are configured in these tenant configuration files.

## Spring Beans Configuration
A valid SiteWhere configuration is based on a standard Spring beans XML file with an embedded section
that uses a schema specific to SiteWhere. The XML below is a partial configuration file illustrating some
of the key features. 

Notice the schema declarations and enclosing **beans** element at the top of the file. These are standard for a 
[Spring beans](http://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/spring-framework-reference/html/beans.html) 
configuration file. There is an **http://www.sitewhere.com/schema/sitewhere/ce** namespace declared and 
pointed to the schema for the targeted release. Often a new SiteWhere release will add features to the 
schema, so it is important to point to the schema for the version of SiteWhere being run on the server.

The **configuraton** section contains all of the schema-based SiteWhere configuration elements. If a
schema-aware editor such as Eclipse is being used, the editor will provide syntax completion based on the 
SiteWhere schema. An example of a SiteWhere global configuration file is included below:

{% highlight xml %}
   <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
   <beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
      xmlns:context="http://www.springframework.org/schema/context" xmlns:sw="http://www.sitewhere.com/schema/sitewhere/ce"
      xsi:schemaLocation="
              http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans-3.1.xsd
              http://www.springframework.org/schema/context http://www.springframework.org/schema/context/spring-context-3.1.xsd
              http://www.springframework.org/schema/security http://www.springframework.org/schema/security/spring-security-3.0.xsd
              http://www.sitewhere.com/schema/sitewhere/ce http://www.sitewhere.org/schema/sitewhere/ce/1.2.0/sitewhere.xsd">
              
      <!-- Load property values for substitution -->
      <context:property-placeholder location="file:${catalina.home}/conf/sitewhere/sitewhere.properties"
         ignore-resource-not-found="true"/>
      
      <!-- ########################### -->
      <!-- # SITEWHERE CONFIGURATION # -->
      <!-- ########################### -->
      <sw:configuration>
   
         <!-- ################################# -->
         <!-- # GLOBAL SERVICES CONFIGURATION # -->
         <!-- ################################# -->
         <sw:globals>
            <sw:hazelcast-configuration configFileLocation="${catalina.home}/conf/sitewhere/hazelcast.xml"/>
            <sw:solr-configuration solrServerUrl="http://localhost:8983/solr/SiteWhere"/>
            <sw:groovy-configuration debug="true" verbose="true"/>
         </sw:globals>
         
         <!-- ################################## -->
         <!-- # GLOBAL DATASTORE CONFIGURATION # -->
         <!-- ################################## -->
         <sw:datastore>
         
            <!-- MongoDB datastore used for global data model -->
            <sw:mongo-datastore hostname="localhost" port="27017" databaseName="sitewhere"/>
            
            <!-- Initializes users and tenant data if datastore is empty -->
            <sw:default-user-model-initializer/>
   
         </sw:datastore>
   
      </sw:configuration>
   
   </beans>
{% endhighlight %}
   
## Handling Sensitive Data
SiteWhere configuration files often contain login credentials or other information that should not
be shared with other users. Also, there are situations where settings for a system are 
environment-specific (production vs. staging vs. development) and maintaining a separate configuration 
for each creates extra work. Using Spring property placeholders allows sensitive data 
to be moved into an external properties file and injected at runtime.
In the following example, the hostname and port for the MongoDB datastore would be loaded from
the **sitewhere.properties** file in the same directory as the main configuration file.

{% highlight xml %}
<context:property-placeholder location="file:${catalina.home}/conf/sitewhere/sitewhere.properties" 
	ignore-resource-not-found="true"/>

	<sw:configuration>
      
	<!-- ########################### -->
	<!-- # DATASTORE CONFIGURATION # -->
	<!-- ########################### -->
	<sw:datastore>
      
		<!-- Default MongoDB Datastore -->
		<sw:mongo-datastore hostname="${mongo.host}" port="${mongo.port}" databaseName="sitewhere"/>
{% endhighlight %}
    
The properties file would contain values for the placeholders as shown below:

{% highlight jproperties %}
# SiteWhere configuration properties.
mongo.host=localhost
mongo.port=1234
{% endhighlight %}

## Global Datastore Configuration
SiteWhere can use either [MongoDB](http://www.mongodb.org/) or [Apache HBase](https://hbase.apache.org/) for 
underlying data storage. Tenant datastores must use the same database type as is specified in the 
global configuration.

### Configuring a MongoDB Datastore
To use MongoDB as the global datastore, edit the SiteWhere configuration **datastore** section
and use the **mongo-datastore** element as shown below:

{% highlight xml %}
<sw:datastore>
   
	<!-- MongoDB datastore used for global data model -->
	<sw:mongo-datastore hostname="localhost" port="27017" databaseName="sitewhere"/>
      
	<!-- Initializes users and tenant data if datastore is empty -->
	<sw:default-user-model-initializer/>

</sw:datastore>
{% endhighlight %}

Note that the default settings assume a local MongoDB instance running on the default port and using a database
named **sitewhere**.

The following attributes may be specified for the **mongo-datastore** element.
      
| Attribute               | Required | Description                                      
|-------------------------|----------|--------------------------------------------------
| hostname                | optional | Server hostname for MongoDB instance. Defaults to *localhost*.
| port                    | optional | Server port for MongoDB instance. Defaults to *27017*.
| databaseName            | optional | MongoDB database name for SiteWhere storage. Defaults to *sitewhere*.

### Configuring an HBase Datastore
To use Apache HBase as the global datastore, edit the SiteWhere configuration **datastore** section 
and use the **hbase-datastore** element as shown below:

{% highlight xml %}
<sw:datastore>

	<!-- Default HBase Datastore -->
	<sw:hbase-datastore quorum="sandbox.hortonworks.com" zookeeperZnodeParent="/hbase-unsecure"/>

	<!-- Initializes users and tenant data if datastore is empty -->
	<sw:default-user-model-initializer/>

</sw:datastore>
{% endhighlight %}

The above configuration may be used to connect to a Hortonworks HDP instance.

The following attributes may be specified for the *<sw:hbase-datastore>* element.
      
| Attribute                | Required | Description                                      
|--------------------------|----------|--------------------------------------------------
| quorum                   | required | Server hostname for HBase ZooKeeper quorum.
| zookeeperClientPort      | optional | ZooKeeper client port. Defaults to *2181*.
| zookeeperZnodeParent     | optional | ZooKeeper znode parent. Defaults to '/hbase'.
| zookeeperZnodeRootServer | optional | ZooKeeper znode root server. Defaults to 'root-region-server'.

## Populating Sample Data
In both MongoDB and HBase installations, SiteWhere will automatically create the underlying database if it does 
not already exist. After that, each time that SiteWhere server starts up, it will check whether there is data 
in the database and, if data initializers are configured, will prompt to populate the database with 
sample data. SiteWhere has an initializer that will create sample data for user and tenant data 
models. It can be configured by adding **default-user-model-initializer** to the **datastore** 
section as shown in the datastore examples above.

## Configuring Logging
SiteWhere uses [Apache Log4j](http://logging.apache.org/log4j/1.2/) for logging information about the running system.
The logging output is configured by the **log4j.xml** file which is found in the lib folder of the default server
distributions. For users running SiteWhere on their own application server instance, the default logging configuration
file can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/sitewhere/sitewhere/blob/master/sitewhere-core/config/log4j.xml).
The file must be available on the server classpath in order to be used.

The default logging configuration file logs to the console output and also creates a separate log file named
**sitewhere.log** which contains the same content.

### Enabling Server Debug Output
By default, most debugging output is not logged for SiteWhere. To turn debugging on for all aspects of the server,
scroll down to the following block:

{% highlight xml %}
<category name="com.sitewhere">
	<priority value="INFO" />
</category>
{% endhighlight %}
   
Change the **INFO** value to **DEBUG** and restart the server. All debug information will be now be available. This is
discouraged in production environments because logging takes system resources and will degrade performance.

Commit message:

Updated documentation to include new tenant folder layout, separation of event processing into its own module and addition of RabbitMQ event source.

userguide/global-configuration.md, after:

---
title: Global Configuration
layout: default
sidebar: sidebar.html
prevLink: userguide/installation.html
prevTitle: Installing SiteWhere
nextLink: userguide/tenant/tenant-configuration.html
nextTitle: Tenant Configuration
---

# {{page.title}}
SiteWhere uses a hierarchy of [Spring](http://projects.spring.io/spring-framework/) XML files as
its configuration mechanism. When the SiteWhere server starts, one of the first steps is to bootstrap
the core system components by loading the **conf/sitewhere/sitewhere-server.xml** file. This file
acts as the global server configuration, specifying aspects of the system shared by all tenants such
as the user datastore implementation and Hazelcast configuration. In addition to the global configuration,
there are folders for each tenant in **conf/sitewhere/tenants/xxx** (where **xxx** is the tenant id).
The tenant configuration file **sitewhere-tenant.xml** is located in the tenant folder along with
any tenant-specific resources that should not be shared with other tenants. The configuration
is a Spring XML file that specifies details about how the tenant engine is to be configured. Most 
features such as device management and communication engine are configured in these tenant configuration files.

## Spring Beans Configuration
A valid SiteWhere configuration is based on a standard Spring beans XML file with an embedded section
that uses a schema specific to SiteWhere. The XML below is a partial configuration file illustrating some
of the key features. 

Notice the schema declarations and enclosing **beans** element at the top of the file. These are standard for a 
[Spring beans](http://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/spring-framework-reference/html/beans.html) 
configuration file. There is an **http://www.sitewhere.com/schema/sitewhere/ce** namespace declared and 
pointed to the schema for the targeted release. Often a new SiteWhere release will add features to the 
schema, so it is important to point to the schema for the version of SiteWhere being run on the server.

The **configuraton** section contains all of the schema-based SiteWhere configuration elements. If a
schema-aware editor such as Eclipse is being used, the editor will provide syntax completion based on the 
SiteWhere schema. An example of a SiteWhere global configuration file is included below:

{% highlight xml %}
   <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
   <beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
      xmlns:context="http://www.springframework.org/schema/context" xmlns:sw="http://www.sitewhere.com/schema/sitewhere/ce"
      xsi:schemaLocation="
              http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans-3.1.xsd
              http://www.springframework.org/schema/context http://www.springframework.org/schema/context/spring-context-3.1.xsd
              http://www.springframework.org/schema/security http://www.springframework.org/schema/security/spring-security-3.0.xsd
              http://www.sitewhere.com/schema/sitewhere/ce http://www.sitewhere.org/schema/sitewhere/ce/1.2.0/sitewhere.xsd">
              
      <!-- Load property values for substitution -->
      <context:property-placeholder location="file:${catalina.home}/conf/sitewhere/sitewhere.properties"
         ignore-resource-not-found="true"/>
      
      <!-- ########################### -->
      <!-- # SITEWHERE CONFIGURATION # -->
      <!-- ########################### -->
      <sw:configuration>
   
         <!-- ################################# -->
         <!-- # GLOBAL SERVICES CONFIGURATION # -->
         <!-- ################################# -->
         <sw:globals>
            <sw:hazelcast-configuration configFileLocation="${catalina.home}/conf/sitewhere/hazelcast.xml"/>
            <sw:solr-configuration solrServerUrl="http://localhost:8983/solr/SiteWhere"/>
            <sw:groovy-configuration debug="true" verbose="true"/>
         </sw:globals>
         
         <!-- ################################## -->
         <!-- # GLOBAL DATASTORE CONFIGURATION # -->
         <!-- ################################## -->
         <sw:datastore>
         
            <!-- MongoDB datastore used for global data model -->
            <sw:mongo-datastore hostname="localhost" port="27017" databaseName="sitewhere"/>
            
            <!-- Initializes users and tenant data if datastore is empty -->
            <sw:default-user-model-initializer/>
   
         </sw:datastore>
   
      </sw:configuration>
   
   </beans>
{% endhighlight %}
   
## Handling Sensitive Data
SiteWhere configuration files often contain login credentials or other information that should not
be shared with other users. Also, there are situations where settings for a system are 
environment-specific (production vs. staging vs. development) and maintaining a separate configuration 
for each creates extra work. Using Spring property placeholders allows sensitive data 
to be moved into an external properties file and injected at runtime.
In the following example, the hostname and port for the MongoDB datastore would be loaded from
the **sitewhere.properties** file in the same directory as the main configuration file.

{% highlight xml %}
<context:property-placeholder location="file:${catalina.home}/conf/sitewhere/sitewhere.properties" 
	ignore-resource-not-found="true"/>

	<sw:configuration>
      
	<!-- ########################### -->
	<!-- # DATASTORE CONFIGURATION # -->
	<!-- ########################### -->
	<sw:datastore>
      
		<!-- Default MongoDB Datastore -->
		<sw:mongo-datastore hostname="${mongo.host}" port="${mongo.port}" databaseName="sitewhere"/>
{% endhighlight %}
    
The properties file would contain values for the placeholders as shown below:

{% highlight jproperties %}
# SiteWhere configuration properties.
mongo.host=localhost
mongo.port=1234
{% endhighlight %}

## Global Datastore Configuration
SiteWhere can use either [MongoDB](http://www.mongodb.org/) or [Apache HBase](https://hbase.apache.org/) for 
underlying data storage. Tenant datastores must use the same database type as is specified in the 
global configuration.

### Configuring a MongoDB Datastore
To use MongoDB as the global datastore, edit the SiteWhere configuration **datastore** section
and use the **mongo-datastore** element as shown below:

{% highlight xml %}
<sw:datastore>
   
	<!-- MongoDB datastore used for global data model -->
	<sw:mongo-datastore hostname="localhost" port="27017" databaseName="sitewhere"/>
      
	<!-- Initializes users and tenant data if datastore is empty -->
	<sw:default-user-model-initializer/>

</sw:datastore>
{% endhighlight %}

Note that the default settings assume a local MongoDB instance running on the default port and using a database
named **sitewhere**.

The following attributes may be specified for the **mongo-datastore** element.
      
| Attribute               | Required | Description                                      
|-------------------------|----------|--------------------------------------------------
| hostname                | optional | Server hostname for MongoDB instance. Defaults to *localhost*.
| port                    | optional | Server port for MongoDB instance. Defaults to *27017*.
| databaseName            | optional | MongoDB database name for SiteWhere storage. Defaults to *sitewhere*.

### Configuring an HBase Datastore
To use Apache HBase as the global datastore, edit the SiteWhere configuration **datastore** section 
and use the **hbase-datastore** element as shown below:

{% highlight xml %}
<sw:datastore>

	<!-- Default HBase Datastore -->
	<sw:hbase-datastore quorum="sandbox.hortonworks.com" zookeeperZnodeParent="/hbase-unsecure"/>

	<!-- Initializes users and tenant data if datastore is empty -->
	<sw:default-user-model-initializer/>

</sw:datastore>
{% endhighlight %}

The above configuration may be used to connect to a Hortonworks HDP instance.

The following attributes may be specified for the *<sw:hbase-datastore>* element.
      
| Attribute                | Required | Description                                      
|--------------------------|----------|--------------------------------------------------
| quorum                   | required | Server hostname for HBase ZooKeeper quorum.
| zookeeperClientPort      | optional | ZooKeeper client port. Defaults to *2181*.
| zookeeperZnodeParent     | optional | ZooKeeper znode parent. Defaults to '/hbase'.
| zookeeperZnodeRootServer | optional | ZooKeeper znode root server. Defaults to 'root-region-server'.

## Populating Sample Data
In both MongoDB and HBase installations, SiteWhere will automatically create the underlying database if it does 
not already exist. After that, each time that SiteWhere server starts up, it will check whether there is data 
in the database and, if data initializers are configured, will prompt to populate the database with 
sample data. SiteWhere has an initializer that will create sample data for user and tenant data 
models. It can be configured by adding **default-user-model-initializer** to the **datastore** 
section as shown in the datastore examples above.

## Configuring Logging
SiteWhere uses [Apache Log4j](http://logging.apache.org/log4j/1.2/) for logging information about the running system.
The logging output is configured by the **log4j.xml** file which is found in the lib folder of the default server
distributions. For users running SiteWhere on their own application server instance, the default logging configuration
file can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/sitewhere/sitewhere/blob/master/sitewhere-core/config/log4j.xml).
The file must be available on the server classpath in order to be used.

The default logging configuration file logs to the console output and also creates a separate log file named
**sitewhere.log** which contains the same content.

### Enabling Server Debug Output
By default, most debugging output is not logged for SiteWhere. To turn debugging on for all aspects of the server,
scroll down to the following block:

{% highlight xml %}
<category name="com.sitewhere">
	<priority value="INFO" />
</category>
{% endhighlight %}
   
Change the **INFO** value to **DEBUG** and restart the server. All debug information will be now be available. This is
discouraged in production environments because logging takes system resources and will degrade performance.
